Define holiday ? 

Monday , June 30th , 2003 Got a week off work . 

I shall be spending it removing the endless amounts of woodchip from our hall and landing . 

Yesterday we made a start . 

It came off relatively easy considering all the horror stories I 'd heard . 

The plaster beneath was in fairly good shape . 

I 'm hoping this will be the case throughout . 

It 's [ ... ] Posted in Personal | 1 Comment » Validating again Friday , June 27th , 2003 The geeks amoungst you will be absolutely riveted to hear that this site now once more has valid XHTML , CSS and RSS . 

Not noly that , but I 've also slapped a link to the Hivelogic URL cleaner to avoid the mess happening again . 

Posted in Web design | Comments Off Fight for your Digital Rights Friday , June 27th , 2003 This scenario is becoming all-to frequent in my life these days : I buy a CD at chart price ( around a tenner ) . 

I take it to work to listen to it on my PC . 

I ca n't unless I am prepared to install some new software which then lets me listen to copy-protected inferior quality MP3 or Wav [ ... ] Posted in Music | Comments Off RNIB - bite back Thursday , June 26th , 2003 I do n't know what point this lady is trying to make but she mentions this site ! 

Tim at Made for All alerted me to this fact and it 's kind of cute that my humble blog that has only recently been mentioning anything to do with web design ends up on the other end of somebody 's [ ... ] Posted in Web design | 2 Comments » UK Web Accessibility Congress Thursday , June 26th , 2003 It seems that a representative from the RNIB will be speaking at the United Kingdom Web Accessibility Congress so we 'll all get to mull over the redesign there . 

So , who 's going ? 

Posted in Web design | 4 Comments » Reloading the RNIB Thursday , June 26th , 2003 Simon Willison has had a go at redoing the new RNIB site in css . 

He 's reduced the code substantially and it looks near on identical in at least IE6.The RNIB designers really ought to know how to do this already , hey ho . 

Posted in Web design | Comments Off The Mythical Mailto subject Thursday , June 26th , 2003 I 've always been a little confused by sites that add strange bits of code to the end of their email links . 

The non standard markup up usually comes in the form of ' mailto:person@website.com subject=subjectitle ' . 

Never seemed quite right . 

So I looked it up and found why not to use ?subject= in your webpage email links . 

Posted in Web design | 2 Comments » The Death of the record company Thursday , June 26th , 2003 Record labels are to start suing users of peer-to-peer ( MP3 ) file swapping software . 

It seems that the record companies still have n't worked out how to tackle the problem of users swapping their record collections online . 

They 've move on from taking on the software creators to the individual users and will be hauling their asses into [ ... ] Posted in Music | Comments Off Jon Tickle : A Living Legend Wednesday , June 25th , 2003 My God , Big Brother has got boring since the eviction of Fed and Jon last Friday . 

These two were the life blood of the show . 

Fed alleviated his boredom by antagonising his fellow housemates and muttering to himself - " Oh , the hilarity of it all " whilst ( wearing his ' camp-man ' lycra suit ) watching the others playing [ ... ] Posted in TV | 5 Comments » Camino crisis ? 

Wednesday , June 25th , 2003 Joe Clark tells me that this site 's main content column does n't appear in Camino - a version of Mozilla for Mac OSX users . 

I 've no idea why . 

As he explains , it uses exactly the same engine as Mozilla . 

So , what 's the deal ? 

I 've not looked at the GuyWeb source code for a while now as [ ... ] 

