Roll on David Davis IDS has been a failure as Leader of the Opposition . 

The man has no conception on how to modernise the party to make it electable again . 

To him the old way is best with a little policy adjustments . 

The fact is that this is not enough . 

The party needs to change its mentality – that you can blame Bogeymen on complicated problems – and the party has to be open and forward looking to the need to adapt and change in order to survive . 

Everybody knows what the Tories are against ( foreigners , Europe and illegal immigrants ) but not for what it is for . 

A major problem is what I call Rightwing populism which Hague and Leonard are best for , but this approach – you all know what I mean – does n't make us seem credible and popular as a party . 

We need to be reasonable and not in a knee jerk way blame particular people in society . 

This of course does n't mean that we ca n't criticise single parents etc just that it needs to be in proportion to reality and be balanced . 

This is something the party is n't very good at . 

The party also needs to get rid of the old hacks at the Party Conference and appeal and get younger and middle aged people into the Tory party . 

The party membership is literally dying away . 

The same goes for ethnic minorities . 

Media and presentation are important and IDS is seemingly incapable of understanding the fundamental importance of this for a successful opposition . 

IDS told a newspaper that he could n't see the party winning the next general election . 

What kind of fool is he ? 

THE MAN HAS TO GO ! 

This is the brutal truth . 

According to MORI the Tories have gone DOWN in the polls since IDS has become leader . 

They should be going up , not down . 

It 's not a matter of if but when that useless leader goes and the sooner the better for the party . 

When Hague went ( another foolish leader ) there was no obvious leader in waiting , but now there is . 

DAVID DAVIS . 

Now go to his website. http://www.ddforleader.net / These were a few thumbs up for David Davis ; I very much hope that DD can win the Parliamentary contest . 

I am sure that if he is put before the membership he will win through . 

I will vote for him for a number of reasons such as : 1. He has no baggage . 

2. He come across as sincere 3. He is a good communicator . 

4. He commands respect . 

5. He seems to be very level headed . 

6. I feel that he wont be afraid to make changes and in my opinion he knows how to manage the change process well . 

7. More Importantly - he looks like a winner. “As a party member in Haltemprice and Howden I whole heartedly support the campaign for David Davis to stand for the leader of the Conservative Party . 

It is clear that David has the vision , experience and commitment to lead the party into a new era . 

David is astute , energetic , thought provoking , quick witted and intellectual . 

I have no doubt he will tie Tony Blair in knots at the dispatch box but more importantly will win the support of voters across the political spectrum throughout the United Kingdom . 

David has tirelessly campaigned on the issues that matter to the electorate at large namely , Health , Crime , Education and the Economy. “The Conservative Party must strike a new note of optimism for the British people . 

It needs a leader who is not associated with the in fighting of years gone by but yet has the experience of working at the highest political level . 

A politician who is recognised by his political opponents for his integrity and thoroughness of investigation is the ideal candidate for the position . 

David Davis is our ideal candidate , and I support the campaign to make David both the next leader of the party and the next Conservative Prime Minister.” I really do n't need to go on much more , its pretty obvious that he is the Man who can save the Tories . 

David Davis is a reformist candidate while IDS is a conservative candidate . 

Both Portillo ( socially ) and Clark ( Europe ) wanted to force on the party radical unpopular policy changes which would have generated massive resistance if either had been elected . 

IDS though was the Minimise candidate whose idea of reform was changing policy on public services . 

David Davis though is the Reformist candidate and with his Modern Conservatives will be able to make us electable again . 

When IDS goes – sometime in 2002 – Davis will need a short , sharp and decisive campaign which will unite all sections on a reformist platform based on the need to get back to power . 

To achieve this firstly the 300 ; 000 party members will need to be neutralised which means that only MP 's will vote for the new leader . 

Secondly for a bloodless Palace Coup there will hopefully be no outside challenger to David Davis . 

The only credible alternative to Davis ( now that Clark wo n't run again and Portillo out of the way ) is Francis Maude . 

Hopefully Davis can neutralise him by offering the vacant Party Chairman or some other job . 

David Davis will than become soon after IDS 's fall the new Leader of the Conservatives . 

Only with a bloodless coup under a dynamic new leader with gravity , astuteness , ideas , ruthlessness , authority and the natural urge for Power will this party get to 10 Downing Street again in the next decade . 

By Mark ( host213-122-228-33.btinternet.com - 213.122.228.33 ) on Sunday , January 13 , 2002 - 06:54 pm : Edit David Davis would be a disaster for the Conservative Party . 

He comes across as a rather tedious bank manager-type figure , bereft of ideas , lacking charisma , John Majoresque and totally incapable of winning a GE ( in my opinion ) . 

That said he would probably win a future leadership election given the Party 's current propensity for selecting losers to lead the parliamentary group . 

" he looks like a winner " . 

He was actually lucky to hang on to his seat at the GE in June when his majority was slashed from 7,514 to 1,903 . 

He only mustered a few votes during the recent leadership election , emerged as an unknown and has made little impression since . 

My choice for leader at the next election , if Portillo decides not to stand again , would be either Oliver Letwin or Damian Green - both of whom have made excellent starts to their shadow cabinet roles . 

By Tom Godly ( wwwcache2.ic.ac.uk - 155.198.17.120 ) on Monday , January 14 , 2002 - 10:28 am : Edit Mr Duncan Smith should be given a chance to prove himself . 

He 's only been in the job for a few months - one of the reasons for his ' steady ' start has been that he 's deliberately been keeping a low profile while the policy review takes place . 

The party democratically chose Mr Duncan Smith . 

It 's pointless allowing party members to vote if the approach is ' if they pick the wrong man , we 'll just have another leadership election ! 

' David was my first choice for the leadership . 

I agree with you anon - he would be an excellent choice . 

He 's bright , he 's a winner and he has the common touch . 

Most importantly , he has the right views to lead the party . 

I 'm also impressed by Letwin - he seems warm , creative and intelligent , although I ca n't see him as a PM . 

By Elaine ( Elainedower ) ( host213-122-106-23.btinternet.com - 213.122.106.23 ) on Monday , January 14 , 2002 - 03:18 pm : Edit Who is David Davis ? 

Come to think of it who is IDS ? 

I know Letwin he is the warm , creative intelligent person that single handedly got the Tories into their biggest faux pas in the general election , who then went to ground forcing people to put up Oliver Letwin ' Wanted ' posters . 

Still you could describe Letwin as ' creative ' I suppose , ' creative accounting ' and tax evasion , still the Tories need him at the moment , I 've heard that they are just about to sink financially , never mind though they sank as a political force years ago . 

