Count Nicholas Ludvig von Zinzendorf ( 1700-60 ) was born at Herrnhut in Germany . 

He was raised by his grandmother and was educated at a Pietist school , Wittenberg University and the University of Utrecht where he studied law and politics . 

Zinzendorf served as a councillor to the Elector of Saxony and preached in his spare time . 

In 1722 he purchased the estate of Berthelsdorf from his grandmother and offered it as a place of refuge for Moravian refugees from Silesia . 

Although he remained a committed member of the Lutheran Church , Zinzendorf encouraged the Moravians to re-establish their Brethren . 

He resigned his post at the Saxon court in 1727 and henceforth devoted all his time to the needs of the community . 

In 1734 Zinzendorf was ordained , in the apparent hope that he could establish a Moravian branch of the Lutheran Church . 

These plans came to nothing and he was exiled by the Saxon government although the Brethren were not banned . 

In exile , he devoted much time to fostering overseas missions in the West Indies and elsewhere . 

During a visit to England in 1737 he was introduced to Archbishop Potter and later that year in Berlin he was consecrated a Moravian bishop , with a responsibility which was defined four years later as that of general warden of the church . 

Zinzendorf visited England again in 1741 and met with John Wesley to discuss theological differences . 

In the same year , he visited North America and remained there for two years , serving as a Lutheran pastor in Phladelphia while attempting to organise German Protestant congregations in Pennsylvania into an ecumenical synod . 

Upon his return to Germany , he tried to re-establish closer links with the Lutherans and took part in an ill-starred mission to Russia . 

From 1749 to 1755 , Zinzendorf based himself in London . 

His attempts to secure parliamentary recognition of the Moravians as an ' ancient Protestant Episcopal Church ' were ultimately successful , but the costs incurred , brought the church to the brink of bankruptcy . 

Zinzendorf returned to Herrnhut in 1755 and surrendered some of his powers . 

His death occurred after a period of declining health . 

Source : Dictionary of Evangelical Biography 1739-1860 , edited by Donald M. Lewis ( 1995 ) Johann Zoffany ( 1733-1810 ) was born in Ratisbon , Germany , the son of an architect . 

He ran away from home at the age of thirteen to study painting and ended up in Rome where he was befriended by a cardinal . 

After twelve years residence in Italy he returned to Germany , married unhappily and moved to England in 1758 . 

Zoffany lodged in London and was at first living in great poverty . 

He was introduced to a clock-maker , who employed him to paint landscapes on clock faces . 

He then moved on to work as a drapery painter . 

By 1762 Zoffany had begun to make a reputation as a portrait painter . 

He exhibited in the Spring of that year and attracted attention with his pieces on theatrical themes . 

His portraits were popular with George III , who became his patron and for whom he produced a family portrait of Queen Charlotte with the Prince of Wales and the Duke of York . 

He was engaged in 1770 to accompany Captain Cook on his voyage to the Pacific but withdrew from the venture and moved to Italy in 1772 . 

Zoffany enjoyed success in Italy and Vienna where he was made a baron of the Austrian Empire . 

He returned to England in 1779 but left for India in 1783 . 

Zoffany spent seven years in the East where he made a considerable sum of money painting portraits and scenes from Anglo-Indian life . 

Zoffany returned to London in 1790 and died there in November 1810 . 

Zoffany painted a portrait of John Wesley in about 1760 . 

Source : Dictionary of National Biography and John Telford , Sayings and Portraits of John Wesley ( 1924 ) Biographical Index start page | Methodist Archives Compiled by Gareth Lloyd © John Rylands University Library of Manchester . 

Maintained by the JRULM Web Team . 

Last updated April 2004 . 

