The amount of customs duty you must pay on imported goods depends on the customs value of your goods . 

This value is calculated as the price paid or payable for the goods by the buyer at the open market price ( ie as if between unrelated businesses ) , plus the cost of insurance and freight ( CIF ) charges to the European Union ( EU ) border . 

The duty payable is normally a percentage of the value . 

Therefore , if the value is incorrectly calculated , the duty will be incorrect as well . 

As for an incorrect classification , an incorrect value could result in over or under payment of duty , which could lead to interest and penalties . 

Valuation for duty is therefore extremely important . 

Some costs may , subject to conditions , be excluded from the dutiable value . 

These include : delivery costs within the EU ( such costs may need to be included in the value for import VAT ) discounts - trade , quantity or cash discounts that are freely available dividend payments to the seller buying agent 's commission interest payable under a finance arrangement to buy the imported goods charges for post importation work . 

Some costs may need to be added to the dutiable value . 

These include " all payments made or to be made , by the buyer to -- or for the benefit of -- the seller of the imported goods " . 

Examples are : royalties and licence fees commissions ( not buying commissions ) delivery costs to the EU border including insurance the provision of " assists " , which entail a free-of-charge or reduced cost supply by the importer to the seller ( directly or indirectly ) of technical assistance , eg tooling , parts , engineering or design work , used by the seller in the production of the imported goods . 

Areas where the valuation for duty may present particular problems are : transfer pricing arrangements between associated companies sales to EU branches of non-EU companies ( branches are not regarded as a separate entity for duty purposes ) . 

The value at which goods are transferred internationally needs consideration , particularly where the buyer and seller are related . 

The " transfer price " has similar duty implications to those applicable to direct tax . 

However , it is often possible to utilise EC legislation to produce a beneficial duty valuation when , for example , a " chain " of sales occurs en route to EU . 

Some EU Customs authorities , notably those in the UK and Germany , place such importance on the value for duty that specialist valuation audit teams have been formed . 

These teams visit importing businesses and examine their trading relationships with their overseas suppliers in greater depth than their colleagues who make more general visits to importers . 

How can Grant Thornton help ? 

Grant Thornton can help businesses with methods of reducing the dutiable value , and in the mitigation of any additional duty liability , when , for example royalties , research & development , tooling and transfer pricing issues are involved . 

Advice on planning prior to a Customs valuation audit , as well as post audit action can also be given . 

