IWA Announces Winners of the Richard Bird Medal and the Tom Rolt Awards . 

The Inland Waterways Association ( IWA ) announced the latest members to receive the Richard Bird Medal at its AGM in Lichfield on the 1st October . 

The Medals were presented by IWA Vice-President Dave Fletcher to eight members of the Association whose efforts and support are considered to have brought significant benefit to the Association over a sustained period . 

The Recipients are : Dave Carnell Dave has been Chairman of the Lincolnshire Branch for almost 30 years and serves as Treasurer and Vice President for East Midlands Region . 

Dave also represents IWA on 25 external bodies involving retention of navigation ( the River Ancholme ) , restoration ( including The Louth and Horncastle canals ) and even the development of new links such as the proposed Witham-Nene link . 

Ron Cousens Ron has been a familiar face at local and national events since 1972 and has been a committed part of the organising team for four National Festivals and Rallies . 

He has also , together with his wife , been prominent in the Birmingham Canal Navigations Society and has become well known for his fascinating and comprehensive knowledge of the canal network . 

Derek Payne Derek 's support for the association began 20 years ago as the Herts Branch Working Party organizer and he was involved particularly in the clearance work on the Wendover Arm . 

This led to the roles of branch Vice-Chairman and subsequently 10 years as branch Sales Officer as well as involvement in the Rickmansworth and Cassio festivals . 

He later became branch Secretary before retiring at the end of 2004 . 

John Fevyer For 30 years John has been a vital member of the team responsible for running the sales stand at national boat shows and IWA Festivals . 

John 's hard work setting up and the dismantling the stand as well as his work transporting stock and displays boards from Head Office is a sign of his longstanding commitment to the association . 

Colin Ward Colin has provided vital publicity and fund-raining activities for Guilford and Reading Branch for nearly 20 years . 

From the 1981 Godalming Water Festival to Beale Park in 2003 Colin has been actively ensuring the success of both large and small events . 

In addition to this , he has also been instrumental in the production of branch newsletters , gradually expanding from his own branch to cover two others in the combined region publication , Cargoes . 

Helen Whitehouse Helen has been a member for over 20 years and was a leading light in Lichfield branch and also at West Midlands Regional level , most recently as Secretary . 

The Branch and National sales stands have also benefited from Helen 's input for many years as have Festivals , national committees and even Canalway Cavalcade in London . 

Perhaps even more significant has been Helen 's remarkable ability to involve both members and others , most notably persuading local Politicians and BW managers to see for themselves both the pleasures and the problems of the Inland Waterways at first hand . 

Eric Wood Eric joined IWA in 1973 and has held several regional posts , including region Chairman which he held for 5 years . 

Not content with the work required in these roles , he has also been Chairman , Waterspace Manager or Harbourmaster at several National Festivals and was the chairman of the first Pelsall Rally . 

His legacy to the waterways movement also extends beyond the Association as a member of the founding group for the Lichfield and Hatherton Restoration Trusts , becoming their first Chairman . 

Dave Dent Dave recently retired from the role of IWA National Awards Officer . 

He was appointed in 1991 after acting as Awards Officer for the Windmill End National Festival . 

A member since 1983 , Dave has been actively involved in some element of IWA Rallies and Festivals since 1985 as well as several Trailboat and Campaign rallies . 

He has also been involved in Canalway Cavalcade and the Angel Festival and the Black Country Boating Festival outside of IWA . 

IWA also recently announced the winners of the Tom Rolt Award at the IWA National Festival at Preston Brook . 

The Tom Rolt Award is sponsored by Waterways World and is awarded to the best in house magazine or newsletter in the relevant category . 

The winners were as follows : Category A for IWA Branches and Regions : Northampton Branch 's Endeavour - Editor : Lynda Payton . 

Category B for Canal Societies and Trusts : Cotswold Canal Trust 's The Trow - Editor : David Jowett . 

Category C for Boat Clubs By the Wey , from the Byfleet Boat Club - Editor : James Bell . 

For Further Information Please Contact : Jessica Letters , IWA Project Officer - 01923 711 114 Notes for Editors : Richard Bird was an extremely active member in the 1980s and was particularly involved in supporting National Waterways Festivals and Rallies . 

His enthusiasm and drive made him a key and popular figure in the London region until his untimely death . 

The award ensures that Richard and his valuable work will always be remembered and the contribution of others like him recognised . 

The Inland Waterways Association is a charity made up of over 17,500 individual members who , combined with corporate members , form a voice of over 59,000 in support of IWA . 

For nearly sixty years , IWA has campaigned for the conservation , use , maintenance , restoration and sensitive development of Britain 's canals and navigable rivers . 

IWA works closely with navigation authorities , other waterway bodies , a wide range of national and local authorities , voluntary , private and public sector organisations to raise funds , lobby for support and encourage public participation . 

The Association also supplies voluntary labour through its subsidiary Waterway Recovery Group . 

