How much thought have you given to the theoretical side of dance – does that ' what ' , ' why ' and ' how ' of the way people move interest you ? 

Do you enjoy getting stuck-in to study , and can you communicate coherently ? 

More and more people are choosing to pursue a future in academia . 

Read on to find out if it could be an option for you&#x2026 ; Lecturer Qualifications / experience : minimum PGCE , Masters or PhD for lecturing in Higher Education , teaching experience Skills : personal administration , organisation , financial/time management , excellent subject knowledge , strong communication Personal qualities : dedicated , studious , flexible , enthusiastic , self-motivated Working Conditions : varying hours including evenings and weekends , can involve lots of travelling Jo began taking weekly dance classes from a young age , and by the time she had reached 18 her interest in the subject had developed to such a point that in 1993 she enrolled on the ' Dance In Society ' degree course at the University of Surrey . 

This four-year course included an industrial placement , during which time Jo decided to take a PGCE teaching qualification at the University of Brighton . 

Subsequently , she taught community dance classes for children and young people throughout her final year , and this experience laid strong foundations for her ensuing career . 

After graduating , Jo took a well-deserved break from study and worked as Information Officer at the National Resource Centre for Dance , Surrey . 

Here , she was able to expand her dance knowledge through researching and archiving documents , however she realised that her passion was for teaching and so she continued to do so whenever she could whilst remaining on the lookout for a full-time role . 

In 1998 an ideal position opened up at Queen Mary 's Sixth Form College in Basingstoke , and Jo 's previous experience in the field meant that she was perfect for the role . 

After two years – during which time she set up AS and A-level dance programmes – Jo decided that it was time to get back to the books , and she was fortunate enough to be able to combine her job at the college with an MA course at the University of Surrey . 

Although she was awarded a scholarship for the fees , Jo had to take on a second job as Dance Project Co-ordinator for Rushmoor Borough Council one day per week to cover the cost of living . 

As you can imagine , she was n't left with much spare time on her hands ! 

During the course , Jo focused on various different topics and eventually chose to base her dissertation on dance movement within club culture . 

After being awarded the top grade of Distinction , Jo had well and truly caught the study bug and began to make plans to take the next step in her studies . 

She spent a further year at QMC ( this time as head of Dance and Drama ) and soon afterwards became Youth Dance Officer at Surrey County Council . 

Here , Jo was able to transfer her specialist knowledge on to a team of dance artists as they gained experience of teaching within a community setting . 

Alongside this , Jo began to lecture at the University of Surrey , and later at Middlesex University , until she was ready to start a part-time PhD at the beginning of this year . 

Jo 's work continues to focus on the areas explored in her MA dissertation , although she remains open-minded about the exact direction her studies may take over the next few years . 

She continues to lecture in universities and now also at the London Contemporary Dance School , and fits in several dance-related administrative jobs around this . 

Not only that , but Jo teaches contemporary technique classes as well as AS and A-level Dance , and is also an examiner for AQA . 

This number of different roles means that Jo 's work pattern can vary hugely from week to week . 

The benefit of this format is that Jo has a reasonable amount of flexibility in her work , and also has contact with a vast array of people . 

As her various jobs are a mixture of freelance , temporary and fixed positions , Jo has had to develop excellent personal administration and financial management skills . 

There is a large amount of daily travelling and Jo admits " It 's sometimes hard to remember what you 're doing from one day to the next ! 

" However , she has been able to gain invaluable experience across a broad range of further and higher education , secondary schooling , teaching , and developmental roles . 

Such a breadth of knowledge should aid Jo in achieving her ultimate goal of a full-time lecturing position . 

As it stands , her PhD will take five years to complete due to a lack of funding that is preventing her from studying full-time , and this is a significant disadvantage . 

In order to follow a career path along this route , you need to possess a great deal of enthusiasm , excellent subject knowledge and strong communication , time-management and organisational skills . 

Jo stresses , " You have to be extremely self-motivated for a career in research , " and this is definitely something which applies to dance careers – and indeed dance study – across the board . 

On a practical level , Jo suggests , " Get as much teaching experience as possible , including doing community and school based work , " and adds , " doing a PGCE really helped me to learn teaching strategies that are also relevant when lecturing in Higher Education " . 

