Deliberate " mistake " : When the large formation of Cylons attack , the graphic that Athena is looking at shows the approaching Cylon ships as triangles , as usual . 

But it also shows two asterisks leading that formation , and the asterisk is the symbol for Vipers . 

There are NO Vipers leading the Cylons in this sequence . 

This graphic is a reuse of the one from the big battle at the start of the episode when Apollo and Zac were being pursued by an earlier large formation of Cylons . 

( Timecode available ) Submitted by John W Rosa Factual error : When Apollo decides he and Zac will attack the Cylons that are following them , he tells Zac to " hit your reverse thrusters and maximum braking flaps " , but they are n't in an atmosphere . 

Brake flaps would have no effect in the vacuum of space . 

( Timecode available ) Submitted by John W Rosa Continuity : When Athena is about to undress , Starbuck surprises her and she conceals herself behind a locker door . 

The strap around her shoulder changes position between shots . 

( Timecode available ) Submitted by Mortug Continuity : As the two Centurian Cylons report to their leader that all the base ships have been destroyed , we see the leader sitting on a chair on top of a column . 

As the leader 's chair turns around , you can see its shadow being cast right beside the Centurions . 

When the shot cuts , the shadow is gone . 

( Timecode available ) Submitted by Mortug Continuity : While driving the Land Ram , looking for a Tylium deposit , and Apollo says " We ca n't stay in one place for too long " , Boxey 's arm goes from leaning on Apollo 's shoulder to not leaning on his shoulder between the shots . 

( Timecode available ) Submitted by Mortug Continuity : As they reach Carillon , we see Adama and Tigh shaking hands while standing right next to each other . 

When the shot cuts , Tigh is standing behind Adama . 

( Timecode available ) Submitted by Mortug Continuity : When Adama picks up the picture among the ruins , and says " I 'm sorry , Lia " , his grip on the picture differs from shot to shot . 

( Timecode available ) Submitted by Mortug Continuity : When the Warriors are playing cards , Starbuck places his cards on the table near the gold coins , saying " A perfect pyramid . 

Unless there 's a better hand , the pot is mine " . 

His right fingers tap on the table and his cigar is in the ashtray . 

When the shot cuts , his hand is suddenly up by his mouth , holding the cigar , and the cards and coins have vanished . 

( Timecode available ) Submitted by Mortug Continuity : When Apollo and Boomer enter the club , Apollo walks in , placing himself near some curtains while Boomer walks ahead . 

When the shot cuts , Boomer is suddenly standing right behind Apollo . 

( Timecode available ) Submitted by Mortug Continuity : In the beginning , when the President says " Noble delegates , you 're anxious to go back to your ships . 

" , you can see a servant serving a person across the table . 

When the shot cuts , the servant is serving another person two seats away . 

( Timecode available ) Submitted by Mortug Continuity : After the big battle , Apollo announces that the Cylons are " on the run " . 

Adama orders all the Vipers back on board Galactica , and when they 've landed , he is informed that two are missing . 

Apollo and Starbuck have headed off to find the Cylon base ship on which a Cylon reports to the Imperious Leader that an attack is imminent . 

When the leader suggests that their Cylon Raiders can defend them , the Cylon replies that the Raiders are still engaging Galactica- but this has n't been true for sometime- that battle is over . 

( Timecode available ) Submitted by John W Rosa Other : When Cassiopeia is on a slab being tended to by the aliens , she yells " Starbuck " , but the DVD subtitles say " Stop it " . 

( Timecode available ) Submitted by John W Rosa Continuity : At the end of the big battle , at least four Cylon Raiders are seen fleeing the battle area . 

Then , using phony radio chatter , Starbuck and Apollo fake that their two ships are actually four full squadrons , ready to attack the base star . 

Starbuck tries to fake that two more squadrons can join them , but Apollo states that they are n't needed . 

But the Cylon reporting to his leader states that SIX squadrons are approaching ( not just the four ) and that all their Raiders were destroyed in the battle . 

A Cylon does not exaggerate , nor can he be mistaken or lie- yet he IS wrong in this scene . 

( Timecode available ) Submitted by John W Rosa Revealing : In the second shot showing the fleet of Battlestars ( from the port side and slightly behind ) , two ghostly images fly in formation with the three Battlestars shown . 

They are just above the closest ship ( where the narrow middle meets the larger rear section ) . 

It seems that the shot may have originally contained 5 ships and an attempt was made to ' remove ' the most distant two , leaving the " ghosts " . 

( Timecode available ) Submitted by John W Rosa Revealing : It appears that just about every Viper that is launched has the exact same dark smudge on the canopy glass ( along the forward , sloped edge of the side glass ) . 

Apparently the same full-scale mockup was used for most of these scenes . 

( Timecode available ) Submitted by John W Rosa Revealing : When a Viper is launched , it is catapulted forward from a standing start , and the pilot is thrown back forcefully into their seat . 

But the very first time Apollo 's Viper is launched , the background image shows the Viper is already racing forward before Apollo is thrown backward- the actor missed his cue . 

( Timecode available ) Submitted by John W Rosa Continuity : When Baltar is brought before the Imperious Leader , the wider overhead shots show his arms are straight down along his sides , but closer shots show his hands fiddling together in front of him or somewhere between that and almost back at his sides . 

( Timecode available ) Submitted by John W Rosa Other : In the second shot showing the fleet of Battlestars ( from the port side and slightly behind ) , the closest ship has an odd reflection which forms a " pillar of light " radiating down from near the rear of the landing bay . 

It is an effects error , perhaps created while trying to hide the rod that holds the ship up from below . 

( Timecode available ) Submitted by John W Rosa Continuity : As the Vipers join in the defense of the Galactica , an exterior shot zooms in on the side of Galactica , showing that her name is missing from the front side of her port landing bay . 

( Timecode available ) Submitted by John W Rosa Continuity : In the second shot showing the fleet of Battlestars ( from the port side and slightly behind ) , the closest ship has a blank nameplate on the front of the landing bay where all the ships normally have their names displayed . 

In the next shot , a close-up shows this plate now says , " Atlantia " . 

( Timecode available ) Submitted by John W Rosa 

