Interested in front line crime fighting vacancies ( investigations , detection and enforcement ) ? 

The modern police & criminal justice sector offers many front line crime fighting operational roles for which you do not need to be a serving police officer . 

These roles are at the heart of crime detection , investigation and law enforcement , working alongside the serving officers . 

You may offer the required commitment , coolness and analytical skills needed of an investigator but do not want to commit to a life time career with the police . 

Or you maybe unsure about becoming a police officer . 

These civilian crime fighting vacancies will allow you work at the heart of the police resolving crimes , serving the public whilst developing your skills . 

Civilian investigators Working alongside serving officers building cases by gathering evidence via interviews , telephonic research etc. Hi tech crime investigators Focused on computer related crime and crimes where computers have been used . 

Crime scenes investigator Forensic science related discipline . 

Involves attending and examining scenes of crimes and gathering forensic evidence . 

Custody assistant Assisting custody officers in the detention of prisoners/detainees within the integrated custody environment . 

Escorting and facilitating prisoner welfare . 

Crime analyst Providing analytical support focussing on the strategic aims of crime intelligence and incidents identifying patterns and trends . 

Case Builders Both the Police & the Crown Prosecution Service require para legal support in case management and initial preparation of prosecutions . 

They offer some of the best training and entry level positions for legal professionals . 

Community Support officer Police Community Support Officers ( PCSOs or CSOs ) are civilian police staff employed to support the public and assist police officers . 

The main aim of a CSO is to provide a visible presence on the street , and improve the quality of life in the community by offering greater public reassurance . 

