Mug an 87 yr old , get awarded £ 3,500 costs after ' unfair ' trial : Welcome to the EU . 

Knowsley Council like to fly the EU Flag now and again , they also link to the EU parliament from there website . 

Maybe the Councils closeness to the dodgy EU has led them towards adopting the ' reward the bad ' culture which has seeped into our community and society at large . 

Today on Sunday 20 June 2004 , our local councillors may have perhaps seen there ' hero ' Tony Blair as he appeared on the television show ' Breakfast with Frost ' to inform us that The political debate over the new EU constitution will be a " battle between reality and myth . 

" I found an article in the Daily Post which every last Scouser should be horrified by . 

This news item proves that the so called ' myth ' of a European Super-state which over-rules our law , is actually very much a reality . 

Unless the greatest ever electoral fraud ever is pulled off in the UK , the odds of us all voting to be further dragged in this wasteful EU beaurocracy is zero . 

If we get a referendum , which Blair has promised , how many will vote for a political system which takes the decision as outlined below ? 

In the Daily Post on the 16th of June was a news item by Geoff Meade which focused on the trial of an 11-year-old Merseyside boy convicted of attempting to snatch the handbag of an 87yr old woman who fell and fractured her arm . 

The article stated that the European Court of Human Rights had ruled that the lads original trial was " a breach of his human rights " £ 3,500 reward to scumbag The unnamed boy was given £ 3,500 in costs and expenses , because he was " unable to participate effectively in the legal proceedings , held in an adult court , because of his youth and his low intellect " The human rights judges agreed it was " noteworthy " that two experts who assessed the youngster before his court hearing formed the view that he had ' a very low intellectual level for his age ' . 

But the kid was sneaky enough to work out that attacking an elderly lady was an easy way to get his pocket money , who cares if the lad was not bright , he knew right from wrong and should be made to pay . 

Any 11yr old who mugs and pushes an old lady to the floor deserves to be jailed in some young offenders institute and fined £ 3,500 , never mind being rewarded . 

This is the Great European Court over-ruling a English Court which rightfully made the decision that this toe-rag had over-stepped the line . 

Some crimes by there very nature must always bring custodial sentences . 

Reward The Bad The young thugs lawyer or the firm of lawyers were not named . 

The court which sentenced the lad and the local magistrates or judge who were over-ruled by the EU were not named . 

This could have been Huyton Magistrates Court , perhaps it 's an 11yr old mugger here in Kirkby who is now a bit older ' buzzing ' with his new found fortune , dressed in the latest Lacoste tracksuit and trainers courtesy of the mugs like you or me . 

. 

How many solicitors in Liverpool seem to pay off the mortgage by representing an increasing amount of clients who seem to have injured themselves in some criminal activities ? 

We can recall Duncan Ferguson rightfully slapping the burglar he caught in his home , the papers pondered on the outcome , and England is so messed up we were wondering whether he would be prosecuted ! 

In the case of this 11yr old handbag snatching toe-rag , the EU Judges ruled that " The applicant seemed to have had little comprehension of the role of the jury in the proceedings or of the importance of making a good impression on them , " Ah , just another poor confused kid ! 

- but what about the old lady he pushed over , for all we know that fracture could have finished her off . 

As usual , the EU Court of Human Rights makes a fool of itself and delivers a taste of what 's to come if we were stupid enough to vote to join the EU fully . 

Every lowlife in Liverpool who ever injured himself mugging or robbing an old lady would be queuing up to act the victim , we 'd have a line of victims a mile long . 

We 'd have drug addicts suing society for rejecting them . 

Maybe by then Kirkbys police will be handing out ' on the spot ' rewards to the bad , not fines ! 

Something must be affecting the brains of the EU Judges if they 're handing out £ 3,500 rewards to a kid who mugged and severely injured an 87 yr old lady . 

But here in Kirkby , we know only too well how the bad can be rewarded . 

Denise Ferguson , mother of murdered toddler James once said of her sons killers that : " The murderers have walked away with a life of luxury , have been bought homes , given a bank account and 24 hour protection " . 

Reward the bad . 

Tax the Good to death to pay for it . 

We need English people and the input of working class people , to make English laws . 

We are in danger of seeing our legal system collapse through the introduction of European Laws , which may not always be to our best interests . 

Surely the Germans , French , Belgians and other ' real ' European nations , must have , like England , a silent majority of people who are sick of seeing the real victims ignored and criminals rewarded . 

Too many people in Kirkby are on the compensation bandwagon , there will be solicitors here who would take onboard any case , it seems our Justice system is limited to ' No Win No Fee ' , and the odds are that if you tripped over a wet floor in the local shops that you 'd be cashing in and getting more compensation than elderly people who 've been mugged and robbed . 

Solicitors see the legal system as a cash cow , to be milked at will - the legal system is overflowing with solicitors who can do a good ' whiplash claim ' . 

Justice itself has become a word which means little and has a hollow ring to it , but Justice real Justice , is something worth fighting for . 

How many solicitors here will now be looking to the EU cash cow ? 

Englands legal system is far from perfect . 

But it 's up to local people to get involved , to participate at all levels and help change it . 

We 've reached a point were we are sick to the high teeth of reading news items like the one detailed here . 

Kirkby Times receives regular emails from local people in FEAR of young kids who can be very intimidating and have a bravery which comes with numbers . 

These kids walk around , or swagger , smashing bus stops , setting fire to abandoned properties and local schools ( we had a school burn down completely in Kirkby a couple of years back ) smashing bottles , breaking windows , and acting like they know the law is on there side . 

These kids do this under the constant gaze of CCTV - we 've not had ONE photo one reel of footage released to the local press . 

The EU Courts of Human Rights is some Middle Class Do Gooders Charter , funded to the eyeballs and spiralling out of control . 

For us working class people , the only people who are going to tackle the root cause of anti community crime in Liverpool , are the working class residents . 

A bunch of faceless Judges in some chamber in Brussels are not going to help us . 

Ask yourself this Would WE have awarded this vicious little thief £ 3,500 ? 

You 'll know what to do when the massive brainwashing campaign to promote the EU begins in earnest . 

Remember Blair 's words ... ... . 

. 

" The political debate over the new EU constitution will be a " battle between reality and myth " The £ 3,500 reward to a local mugger who could have killed an 87 yr old woman is NOT a myth . 

It 's the reality of the EU justice system in practice . 

Remember also that the cost of this case , involving travel to another Country and tons of paperwork , will further rob the taxpayers of a few hundred thousand pounds . 

Maybe Liverpools solicitors can afford to purchase a small flat over in Europe so that they do n't have to slum it in a 4 star hotel . 

Interestingly , Cherie Blair has been one of the innovators in milking the old EU cow , her firm enjoys great success through the representation of cases to the Court of Human Rights . 

Maybe she 'll open up a branch in Liverpool . 

