Teaching Enhancement Manager ( CDoTL ) & Innovation Manager of the Centre for Excellence in Teaching & Learning in Applied Undergraduate Research Skills ( CETL-AURS ) I started work in CDoTL in July 2003 , and in 2005 I also took on a five-year secondment to the newly created CETL-AURS as the Centre 's ' Innovation Manager ' . 

Prior to taking up my post at Reading I was based at University College Cork , ( UCC ) , Ireland , where for five years I worked as a full-time , research active lecturer in ecology & zoology . 

One of my main aims is to try and make full use of my lecturing and supervisory experiences in all aspects of my work ( I still co-supervise UCC PhD students ) . 

My educational research interests are : Research Skills : I am particularly interested in the development of undergraduate research skills ; in my previous post I co-designed a website ( ' STARS ' ) to support students during the course of their research projects . 

As Innovation Manager of the CETL-AURS at Reading I work with staff across the University on a number of generic and discipline-specific projects , our aim being to enhance the development of students ' research skills through their engagement with primary research ( see the CETL-AURS website for further details ) . 

Assessment & Feedback : I 'm working with colleagues from a number of Schools across the University to address specific assessment issues such as plagiarism , diversifying assessment methods , and designing assessments to promote active , independent learning . 

I am currently engaged in a University-wide project , which is tracking the assessment experiences of undergraduates using ' electronic assessment diaries ' ; this work is being conducted in collaboration with Dr Julian Park ( School of Agriculture , Policy & Development ) . 

The results of our pilot study were recently published in the Higher Education Academy Bioscience e-journal and a case study is available on the CDoTL website . 

Linking Teaching & Research : I 'm interested in researching ideas to promote effective links between undergraduate teaching and research . 

One of the highlights of this job is meeting with lecturers and discussing their teaching and learning , either individually or through my participation in CSTD workshops . 

I would welcome anyone who might wish to discuss any aspect of their teaching to contact me . 

