Do I need to register to read the discussion forums ? 

No. The message threads and responses in the OSH Chat , Careers , and Study Support Forums can all be read without needing to register . 

Do I need to be a member of IOSH before I register ? 

No. The OSH Chat , Careers and Study Support Forums are public , open forums . 

Anyone who wants to know more about occupational health and safety and topics related to it is encouraged to take part as this is one of the most accessible ways to exchange information and communicate best practice . 

No question should be considered too simple for the forums . 

A variety of knowledge helps promote the discussions . 

Registration is open to all , whether members or non-members of IOSH . 

Why do I need to register ? 

You are asked to register before you can post messages in order to help us with forum administration and to enable the user features that flag up new messages . 

Before registering , you are asked to read and indicate that you agree with the acceptable use guidelines . 

How do I register ? 

In the Discussion Forum section , look to the top , right-hand side of your screen and click ‘join forums’ . 

On the next screen you are asked to provide : name - this will be the name which will appear on the site when you make a posting username - this is your log in username email address - your password will be sent to this address so please make sure it is accurate ! 

You will also get the opportunity to read our acceptable use guidelines , and will need to confirm you agree to adhere to these terms by ticking the box provided . 

Clicking on ‘register me now’ will complete the registration process . 

Tips for completing the registration form . 

Check your email address for spelling errors . 

The system will flag up format errors but there is no means of knowing if your email address is misspelt . 

An error here will result in the confirmation of registration failing to reach you , as it will be rejected by your server . 

If you do not want to use the automatic username and password memory , keep a note of your registration details where you can find them easily . 

Clicking " Yes " for Store username and password , means that every time you login to the forum you will not need to input your details . 

A small file called a cookie is written to your computer to enable this to happen . 

If I accept the cookie , what will it do ? 

When you click the button to store your username and password , a small file , known as a cookie is written to your computer hard drive . 

The one on this site stores your username and password for automatic use when you login to the discussion forum . 

Only the information you have typed in , or the choices made while visiting a site can be stored in a cookie . 

Moreover , only the site that created the cookie can read what is in it . 

Allowing the site to create a cookie does not give this site , or any other , access to the rest of your computer . 

What happens when I click the " Register me " button . 

A " thank you for registering " message appears and you are returned to the Welcome page of the discussion forum . 

You will not be able to login to the forums until you have received an email confirming your registration . 

This may take as little as three minutes while your computer emails your details to the IOSH website host . 

There , the details given on the registration form are recorded automatically , a random password is generated and then this and the confirmation of your registration is emailed back to you . 

Sometimes , delays due to Internet Service Providers slow the process but it should not take longer than an hour . 

If it does , please contact the Website Co-ordinator . 

I have more than one email address and want to register these , what do I do ? 

Currently , the way the site is set up means that , although the same personal name can have multiple email addresses , each of those email addresses has to be registered separately , each with a different username . 

Initially , when you register under each email address , you will be sent a different password . 

You are then able to change this , using My Details , so that all your passwords for your personal name are the same . 

Only the usernames and email addresses will then be different . 

Tip for using multiple emails . 

Use the store username and password button to automatically store details for different email addresses . 

Retain your registration confirmatory emails . 

Keep a record of any changes you make to your details . 

What do I do if I 'm going to another country to work ? 

Once you have an email address for the new location , register with that address . 

If you are going to return to your previous location , just retain those registration details until you get back . 

. 

If your absence will be for a year or more , please use the procedure for removing your registration . 

Please register again on your return . 

How do I remove myself from the registration list ? 

Complete the removal form and click the " send " button to forward your details for removal from the list Removal of dormant registration accounts If a registration account has not been used for a full year , it is assumed that the account has been abandoned and it will automatically be timed out of the list . 

