Top Tips for Disaster Recovery Readiness Take appropriate precautions . 

Any easily damageable documentation should be stored in reinforced boxes , to prevent water damage in flooding for example . 

Paper files take up space and are a fire hazard , clear your offices of paper files that have backed up soft copies . 

Analyse your company 's business applications . 

Determine which applications are critical to your business and those that you could survive without for a period of time without causing lasting damage . 

By analysing your critical applications create a clear , functional description of what , for your company , constitutes a disaster . 

By declaring a disaster ensure you are aware of the impact this would have on your company . 

This could mean loss of revenue , loss of faith , bad publicity , or even your business going under . 

Stock appropriate emergency supplies , and ensure that all employees know where to find and how to use them . 

Identify personnel with first aid , or other medical/emergency response training . 

When purchasing emergency supplies , do n't buy too much or not enough . 

Plan on serving the needs of 20 to 30 percent of your workforce for 72 hours . 

Have disaster recovery teams prepared by assessing personnel strengths and weaknesses in terms of knowledge , skill , and performance in order to ensure the best team members are trained and ready and implement succession planning for all levels of personnel . 

Have all employees compose thorough job descriptions and procedure manuals specific to their roles . 

Ensure you regularly test these procedures to see if substitute personnel , guided solely by the documentation provided , can fulfil duties . 

Ensure cross training across all departments in critical business processes and a mechanism to borrow personnel from other departments or locations within the company . 

Prioritise critical processes and workflow . 

Be aware of interpersonal and interdepartmental reliances . 

Training is key to effective personnel response . 

Employees are apt to carry out assigned duties correctly if they 've had time to review , question , and internalise . 

Ensure you have an internal emergency communication plan . 

Incorporate contingency plan developments into monthly newsletters to keep all personnel informed . 

Maintain current , accurate status information on personnel , facilities and resources . 

As part of your communications survival strategy , pre-plan to have inbound , local and international telephone calls transferred to another number , a blank group of trunks , or to cellular phones after a disaster strikes . 

Ensure fire evacuation procedures are current and staff are aware of the primary and alternate evacuation routes and their assembly area . 

When names , phone numbers , equipment , roles , and locations change at your company , make sure plans are updated immediately . 

Be sure that your alternative site is not served by the same electrical power grid or communications centre as your primary facility . 

Identify facilities in your area that could use hazardous materials . 

Determine whether an incident could affect your facility . 

During a recovery operation , watch for signs of excessive stress and fatigue . 

Even exceptionally good performers reach a point where they no longer can think clearly and are prone to serious error . 

Ensure that everyone - from the MD to the temp answering the phones - knows what 's expected of them during a disaster . 

Conduct background checks of all employees and periodic checks of anyone with access to sensitive information . 

