Here in Scotland 's Castle and Whisky Country you will find some of Europe 's best coastline , visually stunning , with little pollution , clean air and clear seawater . 

Tiny villages , picturesque harbours and 150-miles ( 250-km ) of unspoilt beaches line much of the coast . 

Sea air and the company of the area 's wildlife from dolphins to seals and seabirds make the Grampian coastline an invigorating and uplifting holiday destination . 

National Nature Reserves include St Cyrus , and , north of Aberdeen the Sands of Forvie , with Britain 's highest population of breeding eider ducks ! 

The UK 's largest resident population of blue-nosed dolphins can put on a show anywhere between Fraserburgh and Findhorn , with river mouths especially favoured . 

There are Ospreys fishing the mouth of the River Spey , plus lots of seabird colonies , including puffins , in the many places from Stonehaven in the south right round to Macduff on the Moray Firth Coast . 

One of the best ways to discover the delights of this unique coastline is to explore the miles of spectacular cliffs and sandy beaches by taking to the sign posted footpaths or by hiring a bike . 

Are you a seafood enthusiast ? 

Some visitors say that the best part of the Coastal Trail is experiencing local seafood . 

This harvest of the sea represents a thriving international industry , with much of the produce ending up in fine restaurants all over the UK and mainland Europe . 

But enough top-grade fish and shellfish stays locally to provide inspiration for chefs . 

There 's strong visitor opinion that the Coastal Trail is worth taking for the food alone . 

Nor should you miss the award-winning fish-and-chip shops for seafood at its simplest . 

These establishments start at Inverbervie , and continue north through Aberdeen right round the land at this bend in the ocean all the way to Lossiemouth and beyond . 

If you 're self-catering but looking for a gourmet meal on a budget , check out the little shops attached to processors and smoke-houses along the coast , especially Macduff and Buckie . 

These places represent excellent value for monkfish , lemon sole , scallops , lobster and scampi . 

They say you have n't lived until you 've seen and smelled traditional fish smoking ! 

Does the sand really sing ? 

It does at Cullen . 

The mile-long beach at this little harbour village is silver , rather than the golden sands usually seen at St Cyrus , Aberdeen , Rattray , Sandend , Burghead and Culbin . 

The colour comes from tiny grains of glittering white quartz , and when the wind blows at the right speed from the right quarter , the grains rub against each other , producing a harmonic or " singing " sound . 

If you 've the good luck to be there when there 's no wind , then gently scuff your bare feet across the top of some dry sand , and you should hear just the edge of a song . 

