#jobsbox { width:128px ; margin:0 ; padding:0 ; border:1px solid #000000 ; background : #ffffff ; font-size : 11px ; font-family : geneva,arial,sans-serif ; } #jobsbox ul{ border:0 ; margin:0px ; padding-left:17px ; padding-right:2px ; } #jobsbox li { list-style-image : url(http://image.guardian.co.uk/sys-images/Sport/Pix/site_furniture/jobbox_arrow.gif ) ; border:0 ; margin:0 ; padding-left:0 ; padding-bottom:3px ; letter-spacing:-0.1px ; } #jobsbox #jobslist { width:128px ; color:#000000 ; border:0 ; margin:0 ; padding:0 ; } #jobsbox #jobslist a{ display : inline ; width : auto ; font-weight : normal ; color:#000000 ; border:0 ; text-decoration : underline ; margin:0 ; padding:0 ; } #jobsbox #jobslist a:visited{ color:#000000 ; text-decoration : underline ; } #jobsbox #jobslist a:active{ color:#000000 ; text-decoration : underline ; } #jobsbox #jobslist a:hover{ color:#FF6633 ; text-decoration : underline ; } #jobsbox a { display : block ; color:#000000 ; font-weight:bold ; border-top : 1px solid #000000 ; margin-top:5px ; padding:2px 3px 4px 3px ; text-decoration : underline ; } #jobsbox a:visited{ color:#000000 ; text-decoration : underline ; } #jobsbox a:active{ color:#000000 ; text-decoration : underline ; } #jobsbox a:hover{ color:#FF6633 ; text-decoration : underline ; } Search all jobs Recent articles Cricket : Warne bids to contain Shah Cricket : Warwickshire forge ahead Cricket : Derbyshire try to lure Hick Cricket : Lehmann leads Yorkshire resistance England v Pakistan - live ! 

England v Pakistan - live ! 

Cricket : Find God , score more runs Cricket : Surrey stalwart is not giving up on England Cricket : Judge rules Cronje inquest should be public Cricket : Pettini and Gough murder Middlesex England v Sri Lanka , third Test , day four Over-by-over report : morning session Carrie Dunn Monday June 5 , 2006 Come on , you Hatters ! 

Preamble : Good morning , everyone . 

I trust you all had a great weekend . 

I was at Trent Bridge on Saturday and had a fabulous day - it was nice to see some cricket in the sunshine rather than watching it on a television in a central London bunker . 

OK , so that 's the niceties out of the way - it 's not looking good for England . 

I 'm not quite as pessimistic as some of my colleagues , who veer towards the opinion that there 's no way back for Freddie 's boys , but everything at the moment is pointing to a Sri Lanka victory . 

An England top order in relatively poor form will have to chase a huge fourth-innings total on a wicket that 's beginning to move for the spinners , and will doubtless prove a delight for Murali . 

However , let 's look on the bright side - a couple of early wickets this morning , possibly for Panesar , may give a little bit of hope . 

Positive thoughts . 

Along the lines of the Deal Or No Deal contestants shouting , " Blue ! 

Blue ! 

Blue ! 

" at sealed boxes when it will not do a blind bit of good . 

James Andrews is a sunny soul : " In a move of jingoistic optimism buoyed by the imminent World Cup and the sunny weather , I am predicting England will stroll to victory by tea , having lost no more than three wickets and with a couple of centuries . 

Freddie 's due an innings , and I am bored of this depressing ' we 'll never make 300 ' attitude . 

We have five ( at least ) world-class batsmen out there . 

" Article continues More preamble : A prediction from Jonathan Hughes : " Dulux with a hat-trick in the third over , " by which I presume he means Matthew Hoggard , who warrants more respect , " Tesco and Bunny Boy get us to 112 without loss , followed by a spectacular collapse with Pietersen staying there and excellently protecting Panesar as the last man , before getting out going for another reverse-sweep slog six when we need five to win...it 's going to happen , I can feel it in my water ! 

" Weather forecast - grey and gloomy , should brighten up later . 

Team news : Freddie wo n't be bowling today . 

He 's been carrying an ankle knock all weekend , and the word is that he will not be in the attack today . 

Basically England are the walking wounded at the moment - Pietersen is still hamstrung , and Colly has that injury to his ribs incurred on Saturday . 

Oh dear . 

Rob Morgan seems to have inveigled his way into the mind of Ian Botham , who 's just said something very similar : " Without suggesting that we should contemplate it , not even for a second , our chances of getting the runs would certainly be helped if Murali was to get whacked on the hand a few times when/if he comes out to bat . 

" A review of the weekend : Chris Rose enquires : " Carrie , I trust you saw the kiddies ' Kwik Cricket over lunch on Saturday ? 

The ones playing by us in the Barmy Army stand provided by far the most entertaining cricket of the day . 

" Certainly did . 

That child in the orange shorts who was whacking every single delivery for six was pretty good . 

I thought Saturday 's play ( and yesterday 's , for that matter ) was pretty interesting . 

As David Gower said : " It 's Test cricket like it used to be . 

" In other news , Mahela Jayawardene has been fined 20 % of his match fee after knocking over his stumps when he was given out yesterday . 

Craig Easterbrook is disgusted at the leniency : " 20 % for furiously knocking a stump over ? 

I remember Athers getting fined more than that for daring to shake his head on the way back to the pavilion , after getting a shocker . 

" Athers himself explained why it 's a reasonably small sum - Jayawardene apologised twice immediately after his temper-tantrum . 

WICKET ! 

105th over : Sri Lanka 287-8 ( Kapugedera 50 , c Cook b Plunkett ) Here we go , then . 

Liam Plunkett 's opening the bowling this morning . 

And what a start ! 

Ali Cook does his best to fumble the catch , letting the ball strike him on the knee as he falls away to his right , but his hands eventually close over the ball as he hits the ground , and Kapugedera , who 's had a terrific innings , is trudging off . 

In the wise words of the Allied team in Escape To Victory : " We can win this ! 

" Who is it that says that ? 

Is it Bobby Moore ? 

106th over : Sri Lanka 290-8 ( Vaas 26 , Malinga 2 ) Hoggard 's bowling from the Pavilion End . 

After Malinga gets himself a single , the Hog goes for Vaas outside the off-stump , to little avail . 

Hooray for Michael Seward who 's joining in the optimism : " I logged into my internet betting account and was pleasantly surprised to find the princely sum of eight English pounds smiling back at me . 

I am now considering sticking the whole lot on an England win . 

Is this worth the punt , or am I getting carried away ? 

" 107th over : Sri Lanka 291-8 ( Vaas 27 , Malinga 2 ) One run for Vaas off this Plunkett over , a pull away to deep square leg . 

I 'm informed by Steve Donovan and Greg Lovell that it 's Michael Caine that says " We can win this ! 

" But I thought it was one of the players that said it in an effort to convince John Colby ( of West Ham and England ) that they should n't escape through the tunnel and should fulfil the second half ? 

Dean Blackmore reckons it was Pele , but it was n't . 

While on a football tangent , Andy Bradshaw asks : " What would you prefer - tickets for the World Cup final , England v Argentina with England winning in the World Cup final this summer , or tickets for all five Ashes Tests in Australia and England retaining the urn ? 

" Let me mull it over and I 'll get back to you later . 

108th over : Sri Lanka 300-8 ( Vaas 28 , Malinga 10 ) 300 up for Sri Lanka , and a lead of 302 . 

Malinga cracks two fours , the first away through long-off , and the second across to square-leg . 

Expensive over here for the Hog , whose right to demand respect is questioned by Mike Clark . 

Well , Mike , the man is clearly a genius . 

Such unashamed and unbridled eccentricity , as I was explaining to my colleague Rob Smyth over the weekend to little avail , needs to be welcomed and admired . 

So be nice to him . 

Hoggard , obviously , not Smyth . 

109th over : Sri Lanka 303-8 ( Vaas 28 , Malinga 10 ) A no-ball from Plunkett , having already bowled a wide , extends his over and Vaas takes advantage by nicking a single . 

I 'm told that the actor delivering the line " We can win this ! 

" with such convincing aplomb in that fantastic piece of cinema Escape To Victory was Russell Osman , which sounds slightly more likely than Pele . 

Pete Hackleton explains : " I 'm pretty sure it was ex-Ipswich and England stalwart Russell Osman who tentatively suggests ' We can win this ' as the team are about to escape via the bath . 

It 's Michael Caine who responds , ' What did you say ? 

' . 

I on the other hand do not think we can win this - unlike some of the JCLs , I realise that it has been generations since we could play spin well , and Colly and KP apart I do n't think any of the batsmen have enhanced their reputations against spin over the last nine months . 

" Funny you should say that , Pete , I spent a good hour or two shouting at the television last week when Nasser Hussain made the bold and frankly ludicrous claim that England are much better at playing spin now than they have ever previously been . 

Cue Murali taking ten wickets . 

110th over : Sri Lanka 312-8 ( Vaas 30 , Malinga 18 ) Another less-than-economical over from Hoggard . 

A single for Vaas away to deep square leg puts Malinga on strike , who gets himself two with a slice over point , then a four away past the same area , and another two played off the pads . 

The World Cup v Ashes debate is split fairly evenly at the moment . 

Jim Bessey plumps for the Ashes : " 90 minutes of frothing jingoism and xenophobia in Germany or a maximum of 25 days of frothing jingoism Down Under ! 

The choice makes itself ! 

" 111th over : Sri Lanka 316-8 ( Vaas 34 , Malinga 18 ) A tidy over from Plunkett is spoilt by a boundary from Vaas through fine leg . 

Ian Forth tells me : " Nasser 's right ( 109th over ) . 

We 're now just bad at playing spin rather than atrocious . 

Since Warne and Murali have now been playing Test cricket for 20 years between them , I ca n't understand why the tail-enders , at least , do n't play French cricket to them , with their bats above their heads unless the ball is going to hit their legs , in which case they should just let it hit their bat with ultra-soft hands . 

Then score all the runs up the other end . 

" Michael Holding has just declared : " Everyone 's fed up with Bumble now so he 's leaving the commentary box . 

" WICKET ! 

112th over : Sri Lanka 320-9 ( Malinga 22 , b Panesar ) Leg stump out of the ground . 

Good work from Monty , who clearly was n't impressed with Malinga 's pretensions of being a batsman after striking another four through fine leg . 

He 's got figures of 4-78 , and seeks that five-fer . 

Murali 's in now , and Ian Botham recommends the England bowlers aim to hit him in the chest . 

113th over : Sri Lanka 321-9 ( Vaas 34 , Muralitharan 2 ) Another run for Murali from Plunkett . 

Vaas , back on strike , defends the off-stumpish deliveries . 

WICKET ! 

114th over : Sri Lanka 322 all out ( Muralitharan 2 , c Strauss b Panesar Yes ! 

A five-fer for Monty , and I dance a jig of Lutonian glee . 

OK , so England need 325 to win , and have five and a bit sessions to do it . 

Paul Price notes : " Regardless of who said ' We can win this ' , and I think it was the versatile Osman , a torrent of doubt about our ability to play spin bowling was not the response . 

As the inspirational Adrian said , more or less , when emerging from a coma in Rocky II , ' Win , Tresco , win ! 

' " Between innings : While we 're waiting for Trescothick and Strauss to make their way out , a touch of good-work-for-charidee from my friend Laura , who is quite clearly insane as she is planning to abseil down the 469ft Guy 's Hospital Tower at the end of July , much to the horror of her mum and her fella , both of whom refused to sign the next-of-kin consent forms in an effort to stop her from doing it : " It 's 29 storeys above London Bridge and the highest hospital building in Europe . 

I 'm doing it to raise money for The Evelina Children 's Hospital Appeal who are raising £ 10 million for brand-new equipment for the Evelina Children 's Hospital which opened in October 2005 . 

" If you could see your way to sponsoring her , just click here to go to her webpage . 

1st over : England 4-0 ( Trescothick 4 , Strauss 0 , target 325 ) Vaas is all fired up , swinging around the off-stump . 

Trescothick beats him with a drive away to third man , running away to the boundary , getting this England run-chase up and running . 

A missive from my dad , which I 've edited due to the possibly libellous abuse of one particular orange-coated jobsworth , asks : " Could you ask your readers why the stewards at Trent Bridge confiscated and destroyed the inflatable beach balls , rubber rings and dolphins ? 

They can hardly be classed as offensive weapons - or can they ? 

" 2nd over : England 10-0 ( Trescothick 5 , Strauss 4 , target 325 ) Another four down to third man , this time from Strauss . 

Trescothick back on strike gets himself in a right mess , and the ball thumps into the stumps , but the bails remain in place . 

James Kendall speaks of over-officious stewarding ( 1st over ) : " OK , I know that football fans are inherently more violent than cricket , but as an ex-steward for Brighton and Hove Albion , I have been asked to confiscate some weird items in my time , digestive biscuits being a personal favourite . 

Although ' coining ' has entered the football crowd lexicon , ' digestive biscuiting ' has not , presumably thanks to sharp pro-active action here . 

" 3rd over : England 12-0 ( Trescothick 5 , Strauss 6 , target 325 ) A single apiece from Vaas 's bowling , Strauss pushing away on the back foot to point , and then Trescothick cutting to deep point . 

Tom Lord has his own tale to tell of silly confiscations at cricket : " Last time I was at Lord 's , the green-jacketed jobsworth who searched my bag confiscated my corkscrew , on the basis that it included a one-inch penknife ( for removing the foil from the wine bottle ) . 

This was an offensive weapon , apparently . 

Once inside I went straight to the Lord 's shop and bought an identical corkscrew , with an identical penknife . 

This was NOT an offensive weapon , apparently . 

However , it had ' Lord 's - the Home of Cricket ' stamped on the side . 

Makes all the difference . 

" 4th over : England 15-0 ( Trescothick 8 , Strauss 6 , target 325 ) Three for Trescothick off Malinga , from a stroke through to cover which does n't quite make it to the rope , and Maharoof gathers it up . 

Ben Hendy reckons 325 is just too high a target : " Congrats to Monty for his five-fer , sterling performance , gotta love the fella , but I just think that 325 is going to be asking a bit too much for the win with Murali whipping it in . 

Still , we have a few players in need of some kind of an innings to justify themselves and hopefully that pressure might just concentrate their minds . 

I do n't care if they nurdle away at 1.5 an over as long as they 're not getting out . 

" Your last point is absolutely on the money , but for some reason when England get these run-chases with sessions to spare they want to slog away and get it over with quickly , rather than just batting sensibly . 

5th over : England 17-0 ( Trescothick 9 , Strauss 6 , target 325 ) No-ball from Vaas and another single for Banger , driving away to the off , nudges the total up a bit more . 

Stephen Topping has a confiscated-biscuit tale of woe : " Years ago I went to an FA Cup match - Rotherham v Barrow - and was almost truncheoned to the floor by South Yorkshire 's finest for having a packet of custard creams on my person . 

Now I only carry Jaffa Cakes so I can argue the toss that they are n't biscuits and to ban cake is an outrage . 

" 6th over : England 20-0 ( Trescothick 11 , Strauss 6 , target 325 ) Trescothick thick-edges towards backward point , and another overstep from Malinga . 

Andy Smith reckons 325 is do-able : " I watched a marvellous run-chase from Hampshire on Saturday where they got over 400 in the second innings to record a fantastic victory . 

Of course it helped that Yorkshire had Jason Gillespie and not Murali . 

" 7th over : England 27-0 ( Trescothick 11 , Strauss 13 , target 325 ) Lovely drive from Strauss through the covers , running away to the boundary , then two from a thick-edge towards cover point , and a single played towards midwicket . 

Steve Gagola is in favour of a quick slog from the England batsmen : " It 's all about getting off to a quick start then calming things down once Murali gets on . 

We want as many runs on the board as possible before he starts bowling , then as far as I 'm concerned we can go at one run an over. but early runs are important . 

Expect a big score from Geraint Jones here . 

" That would be brilliant . 

8th over : England 29-0 ( Trescothick 12 , Strauss 14 , target 325 ) Strauss works one away to fine leg , and Trescothick nicks one away towards cover . 

This is all good solid stuff so far . 

I have an ominous sense of foreboding . 

Joshua Hardie demonstrates that there are lies , damn lies and statistics : " We should win this easy . 

Simple maths shows that if all our batsmen reach their averages for the tour so far , we will score 344 runs . 

I 'd say that makes us clear favourites . 

Given that three players ' averages are 0 , there might even be room for improvement . 

" 9th over : England 29-0 ( Trescothick 12 , Strauss 14 , 296 required ) A maiden for Vaas , and Murali will be on next . 

In other news , I 've been rumbled . 

Matt Hanton writes : " I know it means more adding up/subtracting for you , but could you update the required total ? 

If you do , it means less adding up/subtracting for me ! 

And in fairness , only one of us is being paid for that . 

" I 'm not paid to do counting . 

However , I will give it a go , but if it goes horribly wrong , I am at liberty to give up . 

10th over : England 30-0 ( Trescothick 12 , Strauss 15 , 295 required ) Just one run from Murali 's first over , a shot away to deep gully from Strauss . 

Callum McGregor seems to have missed Steve Gagola 's lashings of sarcasm ( 7th over ) : " How can Steve Gagola possibly expect a big score from Geraint Jones ? 

You ca n't ever expect a big score from Geraint Jones , especially when they 're desperately needed . 

Expect Geraint Jones to come in , score enough to be set for actually getting some runs and then get out in a manner even more pointless than the man himself ! 

" Harsh . 

His dismissal in the first innings was stupid , though , and silly me , I 'd really expected him to make a decent score . 

11th over : England 31-0 ( Trescothick 12 , Strauss 16 , 294 required ) Strauss works a full Vaas delivery away to fine leg , and Trescothick defends the rest of the over manfully . 

Rachel Woodhead writes : " I thought Tom Lord ( 3rd over ) might like to know that his story has sparked a serious case of investigative journalism . 

I emailed it to my friend who writes for a wine magazine and like the newshound that he is , he sniffed the potential for a story from it . 

" 12th over : England 31-0 ( Trescothick 12 , Strauss 16 , 294 required ) Maiden for Murali , which usefully means I do n't have to do any more counting this over . 

I 'm tiring of it already , so thank you to those of you who are doing the maths for me . 

Richard Jones makes a fair point : " Tell the ' overcoats ' they should read another site 's ball-by-ball . 

Dry as dust , not interactive , but does the elementary arithmetic of which they are not capable . 

" Or of which I am not capable . 

I suspect a hint of irony in this missive from Charles Welford : " Any chance you could give us updates in the Hewitt v Nadal match too to save me having to keep checking ? 

Many thanks . 

" 13th over : England 32-0 ( Trescothick 12 , Strauss 16 , 293 required ) Sanath Jayasuriya is brought on , and Trescothick runs one off the last ball of the over , thanks to a misfield . 

Tom Chivers responds regarding the helpfulness of statistics : " Fourth-innings totals tend to be lower due to worn pitches . 

So surely Joshua Hardie 's suggestion ( 8th over ) is misleading by taking the overall average . 

Can anyone be bothered to work out what the averages are in England 's second innings ? 

That might give us something more useful to work with . 

Inside every well-adjusted young man there 's a stats nerd fighting girlishly to get out , clearly . 

" Bob O'Hara pours cold water on Mr Hardie 's assertions altogether : " I do n't know where Joshua Hardie gets his numbers from , but according to the figures on CricInfo , the sum of England 's series averages is 320 . 

This includes the Hog 's inauspicious 6.66 . 

Clearly he should be 100 times better . 

" 14th over : England 40-0 ( Trescothick 14 , Strauss 22 , 285 required ) Ooh , nice over from Murali . 

One for Tresco away to the on-side , four for Strauss with a firm cut away through the off , and then a no-ball leading to a misfield means another two . 

Richard Hall enquires : " Is the numerically-challenged Matt Hanton ( 9th over ) being paid to read the OBO then ? 

The implication of his statement is that he can read what you write but not do sums - like that would breach his work-to-rule ethic . 

" 15th over : England 45-0 ( Trescothick 16 , Strauss 23 , 280 required ) Two byes from the first ball of Jayasuriya 's over . 

These extras are piling up . 

Banger pushes one to point , then a clever poke away from Strauss , concluding with another single worked towards backward square-leg . 

Richard Forshaw notices : " It would be especially spooky if Bob O'Hara 's demand for the Hogster 's averages to improve 100-fold ( 13th over ) came true tomorrow - on 6 June 2006 . 

If anyone spotted him hanging round a set of crossroads recently , perhaps they could alert us - and an exorcist - via OBO ? 

" 16th over : England 47-0 ( Trescothick 18 , Strauss 23 , 278 required ) Two runs for Trescothick off Murali past the slips . 

Rich Butler is good at counting : " The sum of fourth-innings averages for this England team is a woeful 174.54 . 

Trescothick 25.88 , Strauss 31.18 , Pietersen 40.25 , Collingwood 16.50 , Flintoff 24.33 , Jones 27.4 , Hoggard 9. Four players do n't have a fourth-innings average - Cook , Monty , Plunkett and Lewis . 

" 17th over : England 49-0 ( Trescothick 19 , Strauss 24 , 276 required ) Good running grabs Strauss a single , and then a push towards off from Trescothick notches another run . 

And that 's lunch . 

It 's certainly been England 's morning . 

Can the good work continue after lunch ? 

Join me from 1.30pm to find out . 

I 'm off to pick up Ben Hendy 's dry-cleaning , do some risk management for Andrew Hewitt , and get the latest news on Wayne Rooney 's metatarsal for Karl Charikar . 

