Actinomyces are filamentous bacteria , superficially resembling fungi . 

They branch and tend to fragment into bacteria-like pieces . 

It is this appearance that is seen on cervical cytology , almost exclusively in IUD wearers . 

Actinomyces israelii is the species usually involved . 

They may be commensals but can cause pelvic abscess formation and even disseminated actinomycosis . 

For this reason , when a smear reports the presence of these organisms ( Figure 24 ) , the woman should be invited back to ascertain whether she has any symptoms such as pain , discharge or bleeding and also to be examined to check for pelvic tenderness or a mass . 

If there are no abnormal symptoms or signs , the IUD can be left in . 

If there are abnormal symptoms or signs , antibiotics - penicillin and metronidazole - and IUD removal should be considered and alternative contraception offered . 

In women with an IUD who have PID not responding to treatment , then actinomyces-like organisms ( ALOs ) should be considered as a cause . 

Microbiological tests are unhelpful unless carried out in a laboratory with a special interest , and so taking a smear for cytological detection of ALOs ( an urgent report would be asked for ) should be considered . 

If the IUD is removed , an alternative method of contraception should be discussed and provided until the infection resolves . 

True Fig 24 . 

Actinomyces on a cervical smear actinomyces infection requires careful follow up as the organism is difficult to eradicate . 

Summary - Actinomyces Actinomyces are filamentous bacteria When seen on cervical smears , they are almost exclusively in IUD wearers and the patient should be questioned about any symptoms Abnormal symptoms suggestive of infection should be treated with antibiotics/IUD removal Actinomyces-like organisms ( ALOs ) should be considered as a cause in IUD users who have non-responding PID True actinomyces infection must be followed up carefully as the organism is difficult to eradicate PEDICULOSIS PUBIS Prevalence The exact incidence of pubic lice ( ‘crab lice ' ) is unknown , but it is thought to be quite common amongst young adults ( Ibarra 1998 , www.prodigy.nhs.uk/guidance ) Caused by the pubic louse , Phthirus pubis , a blood sucker that adheres to pubic hair and also hair in other areas such as thighs , abdomen and axillae . 

The adult louse is transferred during close body contact . 

There may be irritation but the patient can be symptom-free . 

The female lays eggs ( nits ) at the base of the hair and these hatch within 7 days ( Figure 25 ) . 

The incubation period is usually between 5 days and several weeks . 

The diagnosis is on appearance and may require a hand lens . 

Discovery of this infection should lead to screening for other infections that may coexist . 

Fig 25 . 

Pediculosis pubis Management ( AGUM/MSSVD Clinical Effectiveness Guidelines www.mssvd.org.uk ) 1 % gamma benzene hexachloride powder or 5 % malathion should be applied to all hairy areas apart from the scalp . 

It should be washed out after no less than 2 hours and preferably 12 hours ( overnight). or Permethrin 1 % cream rinse . 

Apply to damp hair and wash out after 10 minutes or Permethrin 0.2 % lotion . 

Apply to dry hair and wash out after 2 hours or Carbyl 0.5 or 1 % liquid . 

Apply to dry hair and wash out after 12 hours Treatment may need to be repeated after a week Decontamination of bedding and clothing by ordinary laundering Summary - Pediculosis pubis Considered quite common amongst young adults Caused by the pubic louse , Phthirus pubis , which is transferred during close body contact Patients may experience irritation or be symptom-free Testing for coexistent infections should be carried out Treatment is applied directly to the affected areas Bedding and clothing should be decontaminated by ordinary laundering Fig 26 . 

Pubic lice are known as ‘papillons d'amour ' ( photograph by Jonathan Ashton ) GROUP B STREPTOCOCCI This group is a common , normal inhabitant of the human genital and intestinal tracts . 

Infection with the organism occurs in newborn infants , a large number being colonised shortly after birth . 

Specific antibodies are passively transferred from the mother protecting most babies , but a small number develop meningitis , septicaemia or pneumonia . 

A study was performed between 1 February 2000 and 28 February 2001 to analyse the incidence of Group B streptococcus in infants in the UK . 

During this time , 537 cases were confirmed of which 67 % were early-onset ( less than 7 days old ) and 33 % late-onset ( at 7–90 days of age ) . 

The overall mortality rate was 9.4 % in this sample , suggesting an overall minimum incidence of 0.7 per 1000 live births in the UK ( www.phls.org.uk ). Routine screening prior to birth has been considered . 

If Group B streptococci are a chance report on a high vaginal swab in late pregnancy , the clinician responsible should be informed to allow a decision on whether any intervention is necessary . 

MYCOPLASMAS AND UREAPLASMAS These are bacteria and some are normal inhabitants of the genitourinary tract . 

Their pathogenic role has not been fully evaluated . 

Mycoplasma hominis has been associated , for example , with chorioamnionitis and with post-partum fever and has been detected with other bacteria in PID . 

Mycoplasmas and ureaplasmas are suppressed by tetracyclines and erythromycin . 

Ureaplasma urealyticum can been associated with NGU in men . 

TREPONEMA PALLIDUM ( SYPHILIS ) Prevalence When compared to infections such as chlamydia and gonorrhoea , syphilis infections in the UK are relatively uncommon . 

In 2000 there were 333 cases diagnosed in GUM departments . 

The highest rates of syphilis are seen in women aged 20–24 and in men aged 25–34 years ( www.phls.co.uk ) Syphilis is not dealt with here . 

Patients should refer to a specialist and further iformation can be found in the National Strategy for Sexual Health and HIV OTHER SEXUALLY-TRANSMITTED INFECTIONS NOT DEALT WITH IN THIS BOOKLET Chancroid and lymphogranulona venereum . 

These must all be considered if there has been travel abroad , other significant risk or unresolved symptoms or signs . 

