Mr. Chamberlain announced in the House of Commons yesterday the British Government 's decision to recognise unconditionally the Franco authorities as the legal Government in Spain . 

Last night Sir Robert Hodgson , the British Agent at Burgos , informed General Jordana , Franco 's Foreign Minister , of this decision . 

France 's decision to recognise Franco was finally taken yesterday and announced after a meeting of the Cabinet . 

Burgos will be informed as soon as possible . 

The British and French Governments have not yet appointed their Ambassadors to Franco 's Government , but there will be no delay in choosing them . 

Sir Robert Hodgson will act as Charge d'Affaires in Burgos until the British appointment is made . 

It was suggested last night that Sir George Mounsey , an assistant Under Secretary of State , will be chosen . 

Most countries in Europe have now recognised General Franco ; the first among them were Germany and Italy , who sent Ambassadors to the rebels only a few months after the revolt began in 1936 . 

The Soviet Union has not granted recognition , nor has the United States . 

General Franco , speaking in Burgos last night , declared , " The hour of truth has come . 

To-day England recognised us . 

To-morrow it will be the whole world . 

" He made no reference to France , but warmly praised Italy , Germany , Portugal , and Japan for their attitude towards the Spanish war . 

It was announced in Madrid last night that Senor del Vayo , the Republican Foreign Minister , returned to Valencia from Paris yesterday and saw Dr. Negin , the Premier . 

Both Dr. Negrin and Senor del Vayo are expected in Madrid shortly when an announcement of the Republican intentions will probably be made . 

The recognition of Franco by the British Government has been unconditional , but Mr. Chamberlain declared that the British Government have noted with satisfaction the public statements of General Franco concerning the determination of himself and his Government to secure the traditional independence of Spain and to take proceedings only in the case of those against whom criminal charges are laid . 

The Opposition will to-day move a vote of censure on the Government during the debate on the recognition of Franco . 

The end in Spain All Is Franco 's The civil war in Spain is over - 32 months after it began . 

Last night Franco announced that he was in control of all the 52 provinces . 

All that remains is for him to wipe out isolated centres of resistance . 

Cities , towns , and villages throughout Spain hurried to follow the example of Madrid . 

Ciudad Real and Cuenca were the first to announce their surrender - at one o'clock in the morning . 

The " fifth column " of Franco sympathisers in the towns had risen and taken control . 

Shortly after dawn Falangists ( Spanish Fascists ) and Civil Guards in Murcia captured the town hall and the public buildings and all the barracks . 

The garrisons agreed to join them . 

Most of the Republican authorities had already fled . 

Guadalajara Then Guadalajara , north-east of Madrid , went over , where two years ago this month the Republicans had inflicted a great defeat on the Italians . 

Jaen followed in the south , awaiting the arrival of General Queipo de Llano 's troops , which were only a few miles away . 

Berlin was the first to report the surrender of Almeria , the port that German warships shelled two years ago , killing and wounding 74 people , as a reprisal for the bombing of the Deutschland . 

A German News Agency report says that the rising of the Nationalists began in the harbour district , where several ships hoisted the Nationalist flag . 

The rising quickly spread to the rest of the town . 

Hundreds of Nationalists were released from prison ; Republicans who had tried to escape were arrested . 

