Communications : Charities keep a light hand on the tiller The former editor of Scope magazine Disability Now recently called on the charity to restore the publication 's editorial independence ( Third Sector , 28 June ) . 

But many charities prefer their publications to mirror their message . 

One magazine that fits this model is Action , the WRVS magazine , written by the volunteering organisation 's communications team . 

" There are so many charities around that it 's getting harder to get media coverage , " said Ruth Mackman , editor of Action . 

" So an increasing number rely on their own publications . 

" Action 's stance is closely tied to WRVS policy , but Mackman claims she is left to get on with her job without interference . 

" I 've been editor for more than four years , but I 've never been pulled up about anything that 's been in the magazine because we try not to be controversial , " she said . 

" Our chief executive vets copy only if it 's something he 's written or had ghost-written for him . 

" There are certain areas , for example public affairs and investment in services , where the relevant directors will look at copy , but there is a light hand on the tiller . 

We have freedom because there is confidence in us . 

" Other charities , such as the Campaign to Protect Rural England , opt to hire external publishing companies to produce their magazines . 

Emma Jones works for Think Publishing and is the editor of Countryside Voice , the CPRE magazine . 

" We work very closely with the CPRE , and the organisation sees all the copy prior to publication , " she said . 

" The magazine is not about CPRE policy - it 's more a celebration of the countryside . 

But we do run articles on hot topics - for example , we did a feature on wind farms , which is an issue that splits CPRE members 50:50 . 

" The NSPCC uses Redwood Publishing to produce Your Family . 

Although the charity has copy approval , it insists that this is used more as a back-up than as a matter of course . 

" It 's rare for us to change anything significant , " said John Grounds , head of communications at the NSPCC . 

" But it 's important that we could if we needed to , because we would n't want anything going in that was diametrically opposed to our message . 

" Many charities prefer to keep a watchful eye on the content of their magazines , but they should resist using them simply as a mouthpiece for the organisation , according to Jones . 

" If Countryside Voice was too insular , people would n't read it , " she said . 

" We use writers who are not members of CPRE , so there are times when their opinions are n't in line with the charity . 

But if CPRE wanted only content that fitted in with its views , then its members should write it themselves . 

" Grounds agrees : " We want parents to pick up the mag and enjoy reading it . 

We do n't want them to feel like they are being preached to . 

" 

